I wanted to do a quick video to see how what we just learned applies to different languages.
For example you might have heard of an executable file that is a dot e XY file especially if you've
ever used Windows before you double click a file that ends in dot e XY and then the code starts running.
The application starts running and that dot e xy is an executable and most of the time these dot EMC
files are created by C++.
You write a C++ code and you compile it to a dot EMC file for example you can use a command like G plus
plus your program DOT C++ so that's your C++ file and you're going to output it to an executable your
program and this is going to create that dot EMC file that you compile down from C++ to an executable
machine code so that when you double click a file that is your program it's going to run because it's
been compiled.
Now when you use a program like let's say Java Java on the other hand uses something called the JVM
or Java Virtual Machine where it compiles your code or interprets your code to bike code inside of this
JVM.
And this Java Virtual Machine is going to understand despite code so unlike a compiled language that
has to be compiled for each specific type of computer.
A Java program only needs to be converted to byte code once and that bike code can be understood by
the Java Virtual Machine and that's where the term for Java right once run everywhere came from.
Now one thing to note here is that bike code is not a native machine code that is most computers won't
understand this bike code.
They might understand machine code but not bike code.
So with bike code you need software such as the virtual machine or a JavaScript engine so we can execute
it directly.
I can't double click a byte code file and run it without an engine or a javascript machine so I have
a question for you.
Knowing what you just learn now is javascript and interpreted language.
You'll hear this a lot.
JavaScript is an interpreted language but learning what you just did is javascript and interpreted language.
I mean yes initially when javascript first came out you had JavaScript engine such as Spider Monkey
created by Brendan like that interpreted javascript to byte code and that engine was able to run inside
of our browsers to tell our computers what to do.
But things have evolved now.
We don't have just interpreters.
We also use compilers to optimize this code.
So this is a common misconception.
When somebody says javascript is an interpreted language yes there is some truth to it.
But it actually depends on the implementation.
You can make an implementation of JavaScript of the javascript engine that perhaps only compiles and
by the way this is also true when it comes to something like Python Python can be run through a compiler
or it can also be interpreted even interpreted through something like the Java Virtual Machine.
So it all matters depending on implementation.
So the next time somebody tells you hey javascript that's an interpreted language.
You can sound super smart and nitpicky by saying well not technically.
Technically it depends on the implementation.
All right I'll see in the next video by.